[DOCS-12260] Cloudcraft Azure support (#32424)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/datadog_cloudcraft/_index.md

<div class="alert alert-info">This documentation applies to the Cloudcraft <em>in Datadog</em> product. For information on the standalone Cloudcraft product, please refer to the <a href="/cloudcraft">Cloudcraft (Standalone)</a> documentation.</div>

Cloudcraft's core functionality is its ability to generate detailed architecture diagrams. These diagrams visually represent AWS and Azure cloud resources, allowing you to explore and analyze your environments. Cloudcraft's diagrams are optimized for clarity and performance, providing an intuitive interface for navigating large-scale deployments. This helps teams to:

- Trace incidents back to their root causes through infrastructure dependencies.
- Determine if infrastructure is the cause of an incident, such as cross-region traffic causing latency or increased costs. 
- Analyze and address the most relevant security misconfigurations.
- Onboard new team members.
- Accelerate incident MTTR and proactive governance tasks by simplifying infrastructure navigation.

> {{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/cloudcraft_with_azure_tab_2.mp4" alt="Cloudcraft in Datadog video" video=true >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/cloudcraft_with_azure_tab_2.mp4" alt="Video showing a Cloudcraft diagram in the security overlay. A resource is selected, opening a side panel with its details. The Changes option is selected from the left hand side of the side panel. In the Security section of the side panel, several misconfigurations are listed. The Investigate button next to one of the misconfigurations is clicked, opening a new side panel with details of the misconfiguration and a Next Steps section with options for Triage, Remediation, and More Actions" video=true >}}
```

</div>

{{< img src="/infrastructure/resource_catalog/aws_usage_toggle.png" alt="The Usage service highlighted in the Metric Collection tab of the AWS integration tile" style="width:100%;" >}}

[2]: /integrations/amazon_web_services/#resource-collection
[3]: /security/cloud_security_management
[5]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-policy/latest/reference/SecurityAudit.html
[6]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-policy/latest/reference/ReadOnlyAccess.html
[10]: /datadog_cloudcraft/overlays#security
[12]: /security/sensitive_data_scanner
[13]: /account_management/rbac/permissions/#compliance

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Azure" %}}

- To access Cloudcraft in Datadog, you need the `cloudcraft_read` [permission](#permissions).
- You need the Datadog Admin Role, or any role with the `azure_configurations_manage` permission. See the [Azure setup][16] instructions for more information.  

- Enable [resource collection][14] for your Azure accounts:
  1. Navigate to [**Integrations > Azure**][15].
  2. Add your Azure subscription by selecting **+ Add New App Registration** if not already added.

>   3. Optionally, select the App Registration containing your Azure subscription.

Reviewer: Could you confirm if step 3 is optional? It wasn't listed as optional before, and it looks like an app registration is always "selected" in the integration tile (when the integration is configured):

<img width="630" height="477" alt="azure-int-tile" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/30972a5a-f1c0-4987-aeb0-8e82d33b6252" />

Author: Oh sorry I think this is confusing the way it's written - My understanding is there are two paths to Enabling Resource collection for Azure 
- One path is if you don't already have any subscriptions added to the integration, they need to click Add New App Registration
- The other path is if they already have subscriptions added to the integration, they would click the app registration they previously enabled then click the Resource collection tab. 

I can see how this is confusing! Let me rephrase this. Either way you are correct, it is indeed not an optional step :) Thanks for flagging this.

>   4. On the Resource Collection tab, enable the **Enable Resource Collection** toggle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. On the Resource Collection tab, ensure the **Enable Resource Collection** toggle is enabled.
```

</div>

{{< img src="/infrastructure/resource_catalog/aws_usage_toggle.png" alt="AWS Usage toggle in account settings" style="width:100%;" >}}

[2]: /integrations/amazon_web_services/#resource-collection
[3]: /security/cloud_security_management
[5]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-policy/latest/reference/SecurityAudit.html
[6]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-policy/latest/reference/ReadOnlyAccess.html
[10]: /datadog_cloudcraft/overlays#security
[12]: /security/sensitive_data_scanner
[13]: /account_management/rbac/permissions/#compliance

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Azure" %}}

- To access Cloudcraft in Datadog, you need the `cloudcraft_read` [permission](#permissions).
- [Resource collection][14] must be enabled for your Azure accounts:
  1. Navigate to [**Integrations > Azure**][15].
  2. Select the App Registration that contains your Azure subscription.
  3. On the Resource Collection tab, enable the **Resource Collection** toggle.

>   4. Optionally, if the subscription hasn't been added to Datadog yet, select **+ Add New App Registration** to add the account to Datadog first.

Author: hey that's a great callout, Step 4 should absolutely be before step 2 for users that don't have subscriptions added yet.

  - To view security misconfigurations and identity risks, [Cloud Security][3] must be enabled.
  - To view sensitive data, [Sensitive Data Scanner][12] must be enabled. For a user to turn the layer on, they must have the [`data_scanner_read`][13] permission.

[3]: /security/cloud_security_management
[10]: /datadog_cloudcraft/overlays#security
[12]: /security/sensitive_data_scanner
[13]: /account_management/rbac/permissions/#compliance
[14]: /getting_started/integrations/azure/
[15]: https://app.datadoghq.com/integrations?search=azure
[16]: /integrations/guide/azure-manual-setup/?tab=azurecli#setup

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Getting started

To get started using Cloudcraft, use the following steps:
1. Navigate to [**Infrastructure > Resources > Cloudcraft**][7]. 
2. A real-time diagram of the resources is displayed in your environment.

**Note**: If your environment has more than 10,000 resources, filter the diagram by account, region, or tags before it can be displayed.

{{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/getting_started.png" alt="Getting started in Cloudcraft, displaying a list of resources for the selected account and region" style="width:100%;" >}}

> <div class="alert alert-tip">The account name in the <strong>Account</strong> dropdown comes from your AWS account tags in the AWS integration tile. For Azure, the <strong>Azure Subscription</strong> name comes from the subscription name in your Azure integration tile's list of managed subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-tip">The account name in the <strong>Account</strong> dropdown comes from your AWS account tags in the AWS integration tile. For Azure, the <strong>Subscription</strong> name comes from the subscription name in your Azure integration tile's list of managed subscriptions.
```

</div>

### Group By

With Group By, Cloudcraft divides your diagram into distinct sections based on different group types. This feature offers a clear and organized perspective of your resources, making it especially helpful for visualizing complex cloud environments.

Enable the **Show All Controls** toggle to display the available **Group By** options. You can remove specific groupings by unchecking options like VPC and Region. To view the current nesting structure and add the Network ACL (Network Access Control List) layer, click the **+ Tags** menu.

> {{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/cloudcraft_group_by_with_network_acl.png" alt="Group by feature in Cloudcraft, highlighting the Group By menu, and the teams tag" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/cloudcraft_group_by_with_network_acl.png" alt="Cloudcraft landing page with Group by highlighted, and the teams tag" >}}
```

Reviewer: I'm not seeing the teams tag in this screenshot. Does the image need to be updated, or the alt text?

#### Group by tags

You can group resources by AWS and Azure tags, such as app, service, team, or cost center, to organize your view by team or workload. When grouping by tags, color-coded labels are displayed on each group. When grouping by the `service` tag, a raised block is displayed to visually indicate the service grouping.

> **Note**: Grouping by tags is supported for AWS and Azure tags only. Tags from the Datadog Agent (for example ,`env`, or `team` tags from local configuration) are not supported. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Grouping by tags is supported for AWS and Azure tags only. Tags from the Datadog Agent (for example, locally configured `env` or `team` tags) are not supported. 
```

> {{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/cloudcraft_group_by_with_team_tags.png" alt="Group by tag feature in Cloudcraft, grouping by Team" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/cloudcraft_group_by_with_team_tags.png" alt="Cloudcraft landing page with Group by highlighted, and grouping by Team" >}}
```

Use the zoom and hover features to pinpoint the most critical resources. As you zoom in, additional resource names become visible. Hovering over a resource displays a panel with basic information, while clicking on a resource opens a side panel with observability, cost, and security data, along with cross-links to other relevant Datadog products.

{{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/cloudcraft_with_security_2.mp4" alt="Video showing the zoom and hover feature in Cloudcraft and clicking on a resource to open the side panel" video=true >}}

#### Projection toggle

Toggle the projection from 3D (default) to 2D to visualize your resources from a top-down view.

{{< img src="datadog_cloudcraft/cloudcraft_2D_2.png" alt="Cloudcraft landing page with the 2D toggle enabled" >}}

### Filtering and search

Diagrams can be filtered by tags, such as team, application, or service, allowing you to concentrate on relevant resources while maintaining context through connected resources. Additionally, Cloudcraft provides a powerful search and highlight feature, enabling ease of location of specific resources or groups of resources.

> Click the **\+Filter** menu to quickly filter your resources by commonly used tags such as service, team, region, and more. Additionally, click the **More Filters** option to filter by AWS and Azure tags, custom tags, and terraform tags. The filter option reloads the diagram to display only the infrastructure that matches the filter criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **\+Filter** menu to quickly filter your resources by commonly used tags such as service, team, region, and more. Additionally, click the **More Filters** option to filter by AWS and Azure tags, custom tags, and Terraform tags. The filter option reloads the diagram to display only the infrastructure that matches the filter criteria.
```
